mimir-docs/content/docs/deployment.mdx, before:

---
title: Deployment
description: Deploy Mimir to production with Docker or self-hosted options
---

import { Separator } from "@/components/ui/separator";

Mimir can be deployed in several ways depending on your needs. Docker is the recommended approach for production deployments.

## Building the Docker Image

First, build the Docker image that you'll deploy to your platform:

### Build the Image

```bash
docker build -t mimir-rag:latest .
```

Or use the Makefile:

```bash
make docker-build
```

### Test Locally (Optional)

Before deploying, you can test the image locally:

```bash
docker run --rm \
  -p 3000:3000 \
  --env-file .env \
  mimir-rag:latest
```

<div className="my-6">
  <Separator />
</div>

## Platform Deployment

Once you have built the Docker image, deploy it to your chosen platform.

## Hetzner Deployment

Hetzner is a popular choice for deploying Mimir due to its simplicity and cost-effectiveness.

### Quick Setup

1. **Create a Hetzner Cloud Server:**
   - Choose Ubuntu 22.04 or later
   - Recommended: 2 vCPU, 4GB RAM (or higher for production)
   - Select your preferred datacenter location

2. **SSH into your server:**
   ```bash
   ssh root@your-server-ip
   ```

3. **Install Docker:**
   ```bash
   curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
   sh get-docker.sh
   ```

4. **Clone, build, and configure:**
   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd mimir/mimir-rag
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your configuration
   
   # Build the Docker image
   docker build -t mimir-rag:latest .
   ```

5. **Deploy the image:**
   ```bash
   docker run -d \
     --name mimir-rag \
     -p 3000:3000 \
     --env-file .env \
     --restart unless-stopped \
     mimir-rag:latest
   ```

That's it! Your Mimir instance is now running on Hetzner.

### Using Docker Compose (Optional)

For easier management, you can use Docker Compose:

```yaml
# docker-compose.yml
version: '3.8'
services:
  mimir-rag:
    build: .
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    env_file:
      - .env
    restart: unless-stopped
```

Then run:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

### Firewall Configuration

Make sure to open port 3000 (or your chosen port) in Hetzner's firewall:
- Go to your server's firewall settings in Hetzner Cloud Console
- Add a rule for TCP port 3000 (or your port)
- Allow traffic from your IP or 0.0.0.0/0 for public access

### Reverse Proxy (Recommended)

For production, use Nginx or Caddy as a reverse proxy:

**Nginx example:**
```nginx
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name your-domain.com;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:3000;
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    }
}
```

<div className="my-6">
  <Separator />
</div>

## Self-Hosted Deployment

Deploy Mimir on your own infrastructure for full control.

### Requirements

- Node.js 20 or later
- Access to Supabase database
- LLM provider API keys
- Process manager (PM2 recommended)

### Setup Steps

1. **Clone and Install:**
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd mimir-rag
npm install
```

2. **Configure:**
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration
```

3. **Set Up Database:**
```bash
make setup-db DB_URL=postgresql://user@host:5432/db DB_PASSWORD=secret
```

4. **Start with PM2:**
```bash
npm install -g pm2
pm2 start npm --name "mimir-rag" -- start
pm2 save
pm2 startup
```

### Process Management

**Start:** `pm2 start mimir-rag`  
**Stop:** `pm2 stop mimir-rag`  
**Restart:** `pm2 restart mimir-rag`  
**View Logs:** `pm2 logs mimir-rag`

<div className="my-6">
  <Separator />
</div>

## Production Checklist

Before deploying to production:

- [ ] Generate a secure API key
- [ ] Set up Supabase with proper security settings
- [ ] Configure GitHub webhook secret (if using webhooks)
- [ ] Set appropriate similarity threshold and match count
- [ ] Configure exclude patterns to avoid indexing test files
- [ ] Set up monitoring and logging
- [ ] Configure backup strategy for your database

<div className="my-6">
  <Separator />
</div>

## Monitoring

### Health Check

Monitor your deployment with the health endpoint:

```bash
curl https://your-deployment.com/health
```

Expected response:
```json
{
  "status": "ok",
  "ingestionBusy": false
}
```

### Scaling

Mimir is stateless and can be scaled horizontally:
- Run multiple instances behind a load balancer
- All instances share the same Supabase database
- Use sticky sessions if needed (not required for most use cases)

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for generic PostgreSQL support
- Update README.md with PostgreSQL setup instructions
- Update configuration.mdx to remove Supabase references
- Add database configuration options (BM25, hybrid search)
- Update getting-started and deployment docs
- Clarify single vs multiple repo configuration

mimir-docs/content/docs/deployment.mdx, after:

---
title: Deployment
description: Deploy Mimir to production with Docker or self-hosted options
---

import { Separator } from "@/components/ui/separator";

Mimir can be deployed in several ways depending on your needs. Docker is the recommended approach for production deployments.

## Building the Docker Image

First, build the Docker image that you'll deploy to your platform:

### Build the Image

```bash
docker build -t mimir-rag:latest .
```

Or use the Makefile:

```bash
make docker-build
```

### Test Locally (Optional)

Before deploying, you can test the image locally:

```bash
docker run --rm \
  -p 3000:3000 \
  --env-file .env \
  mimir-rag:latest
```

<div className="my-6">
  <Separator />
</div>

## Platform Deployment

Once you have built the Docker image, deploy it to your chosen platform.

## Hetzner Deployment

Hetzner is a popular choice for deploying Mimir due to its simplicity and cost-effectiveness.

### Quick Setup

1. **Create a Hetzner Cloud Server:**
   - Choose Ubuntu 22.04 or later
   - Recommended: 2 vCPU, 4GB RAM (or higher for production)
   - Select your preferred datacenter location

2. **SSH into your server:**
   ```bash
   ssh root@your-server-ip
   ```

3. **Install Docker:**
   ```bash
   curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
   sh get-docker.sh
   ```

4. **Clone, build, and configure:**
   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd mimir/mimir-rag
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your configuration
   
   # Build the Docker image
   docker build -t mimir-rag:latest .
   ```

5. **Deploy the image:**
   ```bash
   docker run -d \
     --name mimir-rag \
     -p 3000:3000 \
     --env-file .env \
     --restart unless-stopped \
     mimir-rag:latest
   ```

That's it! Your Mimir instance is now running on Hetzner.

### Using Docker Compose (Optional)

For easier management, you can use Docker Compose:

```yaml
# docker-compose.yml
version: '3.8'
services:
  mimir-rag:
    build: .
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    env_file:
      - .env
    restart: unless-stopped
```

Then run:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

### Firewall Configuration

Make sure to open port 3000 (or your chosen port) in Hetzner's firewall:
- Go to your server's firewall settings in Hetzner Cloud Console
- Add a rule for TCP port 3000 (or your port)
- Allow traffic from your IP or 0.0.0.0/0 for public access

### Reverse Proxy (Recommended)

For production, use Nginx or Caddy as a reverse proxy:

**Nginx example:**
```nginx
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name your-domain.com;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:3000;
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    }
}
```

<div className="my-6">
  <Separator />
</div>

## Self-Hosted Deployment

Deploy Mimir on your own infrastructure for full control.

### Requirements

- Node.js 20 or later
- Access to PostgreSQL database with pgvector extension
- LLM provider API keys
- Process manager (PM2 recommended)

### Setup Steps

1. **Clone and Install:**
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd mimir-rag
npm install
```

2. **Configure:**
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration
```

3. **Set Up Database:**
```bash
make setup-db DB_URL=postgresql://user@host:5432/db DB_PASSWORD=secret
```

4. **Start with PM2:**
```bash
npm install -g pm2
pm2 start npm --name "mimir-rag" -- start
pm2 save
pm2 startup
```

### Process Management

**Start:** `pm2 start mimir-rag`  
**Stop:** `pm2 stop mimir-rag`  
**Restart:** `pm2 restart mimir-rag`  
**View Logs:** `pm2 logs mimir-rag`

<div className="my-6">
  <Separator />
</div>

## Production Checklist

Before deploying to production:

- [ ] Generate a secure API key
- [ ] Set up PostgreSQL database with proper security settings
- [ ] Configure GitHub webhook secret (if using webhooks)
- [ ] Set appropriate similarity threshold and match count
- [ ] Configure exclude patterns to avoid indexing test files
- [ ] Set up monitoring and logging
- [ ] Configure backup strategy for your database

<div className="my-6">
  <Separator />
</div>

## Monitoring

### Health Check

Monitor your deployment with the health endpoint:

```bash
curl https://your-deployment.com/health
```

Expected response:
```json
{
  "status": "ok",
  "ingestionBusy": false
}
```

### Scaling

Mimir is stateless and can be scaled horizontally:
- Run multiple instances behind a load balancer
- All instances share the same PostgreSQL database
- Use sticky sessions if needed (not required for most use cases)
