mimir-docs/content/docs/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Quick setup guide to get Mimir running in minutes
---

Get Mimir up and running in just a few steps.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have:

- **Node.js**: 20 or later
- **Supabase**: A Supabase project for vector storage
- **LLM Provider**: API key for OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, or Mistral
- **GitHub** (optional): Repository with documentation (MDX) and/or code to ingest

## Step 1: Set up Supabase

1. Go to [supabase.com](https://supabase.com) and create a new project
2. Note your project URL (e.g., `https://your-project.supabase.co`)
3. Get your service role key from Project Settings → API

## Step 2: Configure mimir-rag

```bash
cd mimir-rag
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your Supabase and LLM credentials
```

See the [Configuration](/docs/configuration) guide for all available options.

## Step 3: Generate API key

Generate a secure API key for your server:

```bash
npm run generate-apikey
```

This will output an API key that you'll use to authenticate requests to your mimir-rag server.

## Step 4: Start the server

```bash
make server
```

The server will:
- Load your `.env` configuration
- Automatically set up the database schema (if `DATABASE_URL` is configured)
- Start the API on port 3000

## Step 5: Trigger ingestion

Ingest your first documentation or codebase:

```bash
npm run ingest:cli
```

This will fetch files from your configured GitHub repositories, extract entities, and store them in Supabase.

## Next Steps

Once you have mimir-rag running:

1. Check out the [Configuration](/docs/configuration) guide to learn about all available environment variables
2. Learn how to configure [multiple repositories](/docs/configuration#3-github-repository-configuration)
3. Set up [MCP integration](/docs/mcp) to connect AI assistants
4. Explore the [API Reference](/docs/api-reference) for programmatic access

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for generic PostgreSQL support
- Update README.md with PostgreSQL setup instructions
- Update configuration.mdx to remove Supabase references
- Add database configuration options (BM25, hybrid search)
- Update getting-started and deployment docs
- Clarify single vs multiple repo configuration

mimir-docs/content/docs/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Quick setup guide to get Mimir running in minutes
---

Get Mimir up and running in just a few steps.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have:

- **Node.js**: 20 or later
- **PostgreSQL Database**: A PostgreSQL database with pgvector extension (Supabase, Neon, self-hosted, etc.)
- **LLM Provider**: API key for OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, or Mistral
- **GitHub** (optional): Repository with documentation (MDX) and/or code to ingest

## Step 1: Set up Supabase

1. Go to [supabase.com](https://supabase.com) and create a new project
2. Note your project URL (e.g., `https://your-project.supabase.co`)
3. Get your database password from Project Settings → Database

## Step 2: Configure mimir-rag

```bash
cd mimir-rag
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your PostgreSQL database and LLM credentials
```

See the [Configuration](/docs/configuration) guide for all available options.

## Step 3: Generate API key

Generate a secure API key for your server:

```bash
npm run generate-apikey
```

This will output an API key that you'll use to authenticate requests to your mimir-rag server.

## Step 4: Start the server

```bash
make server
```

The server will:
- Load your `.env` configuration
- Automatically set up the database schema (if `DATABASE_URL` is configured)
- Start the API on port 3000

## Step 5: Trigger ingestion

Ingest your first documentation or codebase:

```bash
npm run ingest:cli
```

This will fetch files from your configured GitHub repositories, extract entities, and store them in your PostgreSQL database.

## Next Steps

Once you have mimir-rag running:

1. Check out the [Configuration](/docs/configuration) guide to learn about all available environment variables
2. Learn how to configure [multiple repositories](/docs/configuration#3-github-repository-configuration)
3. Set up [MCP integration](/docs/mcp) to connect AI assistants
4. Explore the [API Reference](/docs/api-reference) for programmatic access
